# Analysis and Implementation of Algorithms for Generating Perfect Mazes
Perfect mazes are mazes, which only have one solution. This repository contains implementations of three known algorithms for generating perfect mazes. These are the Recursive Backtracking algorithm, Prim's algorithm and Wilson's algorithm. Furthermore, it contains three algorithms, which are constructed of parts of the three algorithms, which I designed myself. The main focus of my thesis was to develop an algorithm with large values for four chosen properties. These properties are the number of dead ends, the number of rivers, the length of the solution to the maze and the amount of turns on the solution.

The thesis is submitted as a bachelor thesis at the institute DTU Compute at the Technical University of Denmark.

## Folder structure
- experiments: This folder contains the Python files for running the experiments and a folder images, where the graphs from the experiments are put, when they are run.
- images: This folder contains the images created, when saving a given maze, while running the program.
- scr/app:
  - controllers: This folder contains the .fxml file describing the layout of the program and the controller, which controls the view and processes all of the user input.
  - domainUI: This folder contains a pop-up window class used for warning through out the program.
  - logic: 
    - algorithms: This folder contains a class for each of the implemented algorithms.
    - domain: This folder contains the main structures such as the Maze class and Cell class.
    - tracking: This folder contains the abstract Operation class and all of the extentions of this class for tracking what the algorithm does, so it is able to be displayed in the GUI.
  - test: This folder contains the testGenerator, which creates the tests of the mazes and saves the data in .txt files.
- tests: This folder contains two folders property and time, which each contains the test files, which are generated by the test generator.


## Prerequisites and libraries
To run the code it is required to have the following programs and libraries installed:
- Java 12 Runtime Environment (openjdk version "12.0.1")
- JavaFX 12 (version 12.0.1+2)
- Python 2.7.10
- NumPy library for Python (version 1.8.0rc1)
- Matplotlib library for Python (version 1.3.1)

The development was done on Mac OS Mojave (version 10.14.5).
Processor: 2,9 GHz Intel Core i9 with 6 cores. Memory: 32 GB 2400 MHz DDR4.

## Usage of the program
The program is run by opening the project in a Java IDE of your choice. Build and run the project and the program will be displayed.

How to use the program in detail can be found in the report, but there is a small guide, when pressing "Help" -> "About" in the menu bar. There will be displayed a small pop-up window with details of the different functionalities of the program. 

The program can generate mazes by choosing an algorithm and size of the maze. When a maze has been generating, a solution to the maze can be shown.

## Running the experiments 
All experiments are made in Python. The experiment folder can be opened in your IDE for python of choice. All the experiment files generates images, which are saved in the images folder within the experiment folder.

## Author
Sarah Alexandra Maria Van Dam

Student number: s153659 at the Technical University of Denmark

## Supervisors
Prof. Inge Li Gørtz and Prof. Philip Bille


